README.md, before:

# Gitdenza

By hew

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/92ae9d28-7022-4b70-aa7f-407dc5505682/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/flamboyant-stonebraker-bc9010/deploys)

## What Are We Looking At Here?

I recently saw Tyler Hobbs' [Fidenza collection](https://tylerxhobbs.com/fidenza), which centers around the use of [flow fields](https://tylerxhobbs.com/essays/2020/flow-fields).
I found this concept really interesting, but the math was a little much. I am not an artist or a much of a numbers guy, but the article states that _flow fields are based around grids_, and this is something that I can work with using my UI developer toolkit.

So put simply, this is a _super basic_ experiment in generative art.

## Website & Cryptonomics

Before I get into the cryptonomics, let's walk through how the website works:

### Dynamic / Random

- Theme-specific colors — I want to have some of re-loadability and randomness to the site, so with every reload the colors on the squares are re-organized.

### NFT-driven

- Theme - there are 4 themes
  - funk (30%)
  - deep (30%)
  - swiss (30%)
  - tosh (10%)
- Grid Columns
  - Four (40%)
  - Eight (30%)
  - Six (30%)
- Grid Gap
  - 10 (30%)
  - 6 (30%)
  - 4 (30%)
  - 0 (10%)
- Transforms
  - None (70%)
  - Skewed (20%)
  - Distorted (10%)

You mint a token for free (actually free, it's on Ropsten so just request some eth from the [Faucet](https://faucet.ropsten.be/)).

## Crypto Art: On-chain Or Off-chain Data?

Many of the NFT contracts on OpenSea are using IPFS to host a json file that contains the metadata for a given NFT token. When a peice of (for lack of a better word) "jpeg art"
is minted, a link is created to a json file hosted (typically) on IPFS that describes the metadata. That is one way to do things. Projects like Fidenza and the others on ArtBlocks
take a different approach where a seed algorithm is stored on-chain, and the art pieces are "minted" from the seed, which drives the creation of a completely new and original piece
of art.

Instead of hashing some algorithm or using IPFS, what I wanted to do with this project was instead save git hashes on-chain. Credit for this idea goes to [Matt DesLauriers](https://twitter.com/mattdesl/status/1449138381091377157).

Commit message:

feat: add better validation for the hash

README.md, after:

# Gitdenza

https://gitdenza.netlify.app

By hew

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/92ae9d28-7022-4b70-aa7f-407dc5505682/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/gitdenza/deploys)

## What Are We Looking At Here?

I recently saw Tyler Hobbs' [Fidenza collection](https://tylerxhobbs.com/fidenza), which centers around the use of [flow fields](https://tylerxhobbs.com/essays/2020/flow-fields).
I found this concept really interesting, but the math was a little much. I am not an artist or a much of a numbers guy, but the article states that _flow fields are based around grids_, and this is something that I can work with using my UI developer toolkit.

So put simply, this is a _super basic_ experiment in generative art.

## Website & Cryptonomics

### Dynamic Colors

I want some degree of re-loadability and fun to the website, so the colors are not tied to the seed hash. 

- (Theme-specific) colors — with every reload the colors on the squares are re-organized, but the color palatte is confined to the current theme.

### NFT-driven

Everything else is driven by the seed hash, and the website will use the _last minted token's_ hash. So put simply, click 'mint,' enter your hash, and as soon as the transaction goes through, you'll see the website's design has changed.

What you'll get, exactly, is randomized between these ranges:

- Theme 
  - funk (30%)
  - deep (30%)
  - swiss (30%)
  - tosh (10%)
- Grid Columns
  - Four (40%)
  - Eight (30%)
  - Six (30%)
- Grid Gap
  - 10 (30%)
  - 6 (30%)
  - 4 (30%)
  - 0 (10%)
- Transforms
  - None (70%)
  - Skewed (20%)
  - Distorted (10%)

You mint a token for free (actually free, it's on Ropsten so just request some eth from the [Faucet](https://faucet.ropsten.be/) and you are gtg).

--- 

## Crypto Art: On-chain Or Off-chain Data?

Many of the NFT contracts on OpenSea are using IPFS to host a json file that contains the metadata for a given NFT token. When a peice of (for lack of a better word) "jpeg art"
is minted, a link is created to a json file hosted (typically) on IPFS that describes the metadata. That is one way to do things. Projects like Fidenza and the others on ArtBlocks
take a different approach where a seed algorithm is stored on-chain, and the art pieces are "minted" from the seed, which drives the creation of a completely new and original piece
of art.

Instead of hashing some algorithm or using IPFS, what I wanted to do with this project was instead save git hashes on-chain. Credit for this idea goes to [Matt DesLauriers](https://twitter.com/mattdesl/status/1449138381091377157).

Inspirations:
* Tyler Hobbs
* Nader Dabit
* Matt DesLauriers
